---
layout: post
---

I've never made new years resolutions. This is the year! A few
little things I'm going to work on:

* Make my bed each morning, close the toilet lid before flushing.
* Jog/sprint/hustle/move around gratuitously.
* Look people in the eye appropriately when talking with them.
* Learn plant care, house and garden.
* [`set colorcolumn=80` and live by it](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/a/148678)

And then the main one.

Engage, think, write, argue, learn. I've skated along the past few years
taking things as they come. Nothing wrong with that, it's been
marvelous. This year I want to do just a bit more. 

Respond proactively instead of "in one ear and out the other". Catch
myself before frustration, boredom, or distraction can stop my train of
thought. Do more with ideas than tacking them to an ever-growing list.
Make them happen and share them.

It's been years since I've written beyond basic correspondance. I
gradually stopped journaling, tweeting, photographing, and generally
being aware of and cataloging my thoughts. Lately when I want to play
with a notion or coherently brain dump I struggle more than I'd like.
When I try to reason something out I feel just a tad dull. I come up
with something, knowing it isn't quite good enough. "I'll fix it
tomorrow," but I don't.

I used to think I could just do stuff because I'm smart. Maybe the
smarts are fading. Hopefully they've finally landed me somewhere
interesting enough where sitting back and letting instinct do all the
work won't cut it.

For the first time I want more from myself than I have—or know how—to
give. 2014 is my year to figure out where to find that stuff, form it
into positive habits, and use them to do interesting things.

There, I bought the metaphorical gym membership. Time to go for
three weeks then bury it somewhere remorsefully and gain 15 pounds.
